readme.md, before:

# Pipedrive MCP Server

This is a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that connects to the Pipedrive API v2. It allows you to expose Pipedrive data and functionality to LLM applications like Claude.

## Features

- Read-only access to Pipedrive data
- Exposes deals, persons, organizations, and pipelines
- Includes all fields including custom fields
- Predefined prompts for common operations
- Docker support with multi-stage builds
- JWT authentication support
- Built-in rate limiting for API requests
- Advanced deal filtering (by owner, status, date range, value, etc.)

## Setup

### Standard Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies:

   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory with your configuration:

   ```
   PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
   PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com
   ```

4. Build the project:

   ```
   npm run build
   ```

5. Start the server:

   ```
   npm start
   ```

### Docker Setup

#### Option 1: Using Docker Compose (standalone)

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure your settings:

   ```bash
   PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
   PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com
   MCP_TRANSPORT=sse  # Use SSE transport for Docker
   MCP_PORT=3000
   ```

2. Build and run with Docker Compose:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. The server will be available at `http://localhost:3000`
   - SSE endpoint: `http://localhost:3000/sse`
   - Health check: `http://localhost:3000/health`

#### Option 2: Using Pre-built Docker Image

Pull and run the pre-built image from GitHub Container Registry:

**For SSE transport (HTTP access):**

```bash
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com \
  -e MCP_TRANSPORT=sse \
  -e MCP_PORT=3000 \
  ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
```

**For stdio transport (local use):**

```bash
docker run -i \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com \
  ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
```

#### Option 3: Integrating into Existing Project

Add the MCP server to your existing application's `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  # Your existing services...

  pipedrive-mcp-server:
    image: ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
    container_name: pipedrive-mcp-server
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=${PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN}
      - PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=${PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN}
      - MCP_TRANSPORT=sse
      - MCP_PORT=3000
      - PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS=${PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS:-250}
      - PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT=${PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT:-2}
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "wget", "--no-verbose", "--tries=1", "--spider", "http://localhost:3000/health", "||", "exit", "1"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 10s
    logging:
      driver: "json-file"
      options:
        max-size: "10m"
        max-file: "3"
```

Then add the required environment variables to your `.env` file.

### Environment Variables

Required:

- `PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN` - Your Pipedrive API token
- `PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN` - Your Pipedrive domain (e.g., `your-company.pipedrive.com`)

Optional (JWT Authentication):

- `MCP_JWT_SECRET` - JWT secret for authentication
- `MCP_JWT_TOKEN` - JWT token for authentication
- `MCP_JWT_ALGORITHM` - JWT algorithm (default: HS256)
- `MCP_JWT_AUDIENCE` - JWT audience
- `MCP_JWT_ISSUER` - JWT issuer

When JWT authentication is enabled, all SSE requests (`/sse` and the message endpoint) must include an `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header signed with the configured secret.

Optional (Rate Limiting):

- `PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS` - Minimum time between requests in milliseconds (default: 250)
- `PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT` - Maximum concurrent requests (default: 2)

Optional (Transport Configuration):

- `MCP_TRANSPORT` - Transport type: `stdio` (default, for local use) or `sse` (for Docker/HTTP access)
- `MCP_PORT` - Port for SSE transport (default: 3000, only used when `MCP_TRANSPORT=sse`)
- `MCP_ENDPOINT` - Message endpoint path for SSE (default: /message, only used when `MCP_TRANSPORT=sse`)

## Using with Claude

To use this server with Claude for Desktop:

1. Configure Claude for Desktop by editing your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "pipedrive": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/pipedrive-mcp-server/build/index.js"],
      "env": {
        "PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN": "your_api_token_here",
        "PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN": "your-company.pipedrive.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Restart Claude for Desktop
3. In the Claude application, you should now see the Pipedrive tools available

## Available Tools

- `get-users`: Get all users/owners from Pipedrive to identify owner IDs for filtering
- `get-deals`: Get deals with flexible filtering options (search by title, date range, owner, stage, status, value range, etc.)
- `get-deal`: Get a specific deal by ID (including custom fields)
- `get-deal-notes`: Get detailed notes and custom booking details for a specific deal
- `search-deals`: Search deals by term
- `get-persons`: Get all persons from Pipedrive (including custom fields)
- `get-person`: Get a specific person by ID (including custom fields)
- `search-persons`: Search persons by term
- `get-organizations`: Get all organizations from Pipedrive (including custom fields)
- `get-organization`: Get a specific organization by ID (including custom fields)
- `search-organizations`: Search organizations by term
- `get-pipelines`: Get all pipelines from Pipedrive
- `get-pipeline`: Get a specific pipeline by ID
- `get-stages`: Get all stages from all pipelines
- `search-leads`: Search leads by term
- `search-all`: Search across all item types (deals, persons, organizations, etc.)

## Available Prompts

- `list-all-deals`: List all deals in Pipedrive
- `list-all-persons`: List all persons in Pipedrive
- `list-all-pipelines`: List all pipelines in Pipedrive
- `analyze-deals`: Analyze deals by stage
- `analyze-contacts`: Analyze contacts by organization
- `analyze-leads`: Analyze leads by status
- `compare-pipelines`: Compare different pipelines and their stages
- `find-high-value-deals`: Find high-value deals

## Credits

This repository is based on the original work of [Will Dent](https://github.com/WillDent) and [Juho Koskela](https://github.com/juhokoskela). The original repository can be found at [https://github.com/WillDent/pipedrive-mcp-server](https://github.com/WillDent/pipedrive-mcp-server).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: Enhance TypeScript support and ESLint configuration
- Refactored index.ts for improved code readability and consistency, including:
  - Standardized quotation marks and formatting.
  - Enhanced error handling messages for clarity.
  - Improved type safety and usage of TypeScript features.
  - Added ngrok support for tunneling in SSE transport.

- Introduced a new ESLint configuration file to enforce TypeScript best practices:
  - Integrated TypeScript parser and plugin.
  - Customized rules to allow specific exceptions for Pipedrive SDK usage.
  - Ignored build artifacts and unnecessary files from linting.

readme.md, after:

# Pipedrive MCP Server

This is a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that connects to the Pipedrive API v2. It allows you to expose Pipedrive data and functionality to LLM applications like Claude.

## Features

- Read-only access to Pipedrive data
- Exposes deals, persons, organizations, and pipelines
- Includes all fields including custom fields
- Predefined prompts for common operations
- Docker support with multi-stage builds
- JWT authentication support
- Built-in rate limiting for API requests
- Advanced deal filtering (by owner, status, date range, value, etc.)
- ngrok integration for public tunnel access

## Setup

### Standard Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies:

   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory with your configuration:

   ```
   PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
   PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com
   ```

4. Build the project:

   ```
   npm run build
   ```

5. Start the server:

   ```
   npm start
   ```

### Docker Setup

#### Option 1: Using Docker Compose (standalone)

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure your settings:

   ```bash
   PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
   PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com
   MCP_TRANSPORT=sse  # Use SSE transport for Docker
   MCP_PORT=3000
   ```

2. Build and run with Docker Compose:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. The server will be available at `http://localhost:3000`
   - SSE endpoint: `http://localhost:3000/sse`
   - Health check: `http://localhost:3000/health`

#### Option 2: Using Pre-built Docker Image

Pull and run the pre-built image from GitHub Container Registry:

**For SSE transport (HTTP access):**

```bash
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com \
  -e MCP_TRANSPORT=sse \
  -e MCP_PORT=3000 \
  ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
```

**For stdio transport (local use):**

```bash
docker run -i \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here \
  -e PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=your-company.pipedrive.com \
  ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
```

#### Option 3: Integrating into Existing Project

Add the MCP server to your existing application's `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  # Your existing services...

  pipedrive-mcp-server:
    image: ghcr.io/migueltvms/pipedrive-mcp-server:main
    container_name: pipedrive-mcp-server
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN=${PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN}
      - PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN=${PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN}
      - MCP_TRANSPORT=sse
      - MCP_PORT=3000
      - PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS=${PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS:-250}
      - PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT=${PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT:-2}
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "wget", "--no-verbose", "--tries=1", "--spider", "http://localhost:3000/health", "||", "exit", "1"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 10s
    logging:
      driver: "json-file"
      options:
        max-size: "10m"
        max-file: "3"
```

Then add the required environment variables to your `.env` file.

### Environment Variables

Required:

- `PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN` - Your Pipedrive API token
- `PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN` - Your Pipedrive domain (e.g., `your-company.pipedrive.com`)

Optional (JWT Authentication):

- `MCP_JWT_SECRET` - JWT secret for authentication
- `MCP_JWT_TOKEN` - JWT token for authentication
- `MCP_JWT_ALGORITHM` - JWT algorithm (default: HS256)
- `MCP_JWT_AUDIENCE` - JWT audience
- `MCP_JWT_ISSUER` - JWT issuer

When JWT authentication is enabled, all SSE requests (`/sse` and the message endpoint) must include an `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header signed with the configured secret.

Optional (Rate Limiting):

- `PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MIN_TIME_MS` - Minimum time between requests in milliseconds (default: 250)
- `PIPEDRIVE_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_CONCURRENT` - Maximum concurrent requests (default: 2)

Optional (Transport Configuration):

- `MCP_TRANSPORT` - Transport type: `stdio` (default, for local use) or `sse` (for Docker/HTTP access)
- `MCP_PORT` - Port for SSE transport (default: 3000, only used when `MCP_TRANSPORT=sse`)
- `MCP_ENDPOINT` - Message endpoint path for SSE (default: /message, only used when `MCP_TRANSPORT=sse`)

Optional (ngrok Configuration):

- `MCP_NGROK_ENABLED` - Enable ngrok tunnel to expose server publicly (default: false, only used when `MCP_TRANSPORT=sse`)
- `MCP_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN` - ngrok authtoken (required if `MCP_NGROK_ENABLED=true`). Get your token from [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken)

### Using ngrok for Public Access

When you need to expose your MCP server publicly (e.g., for testing with remote clients), you can use ngrok:

1. Sign up for a free ngrok account at [https://ngrok.com/](https://ngrok.com/)
2. Get your authtoken from [https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/your-authtoken)
3. Add to your `.env` file:
   ```bash
   MCP_TRANSPORT=sse
   MCP_NGROK_ENABLED=true
   MCP_NGROK_AUTHTOKEN=your_ngrok_authtoken_here
   ```
4. Start the server with `npm run dev` or `npm start`
5. The console will display your public ngrok URL:
   ```
   🌐 ngrok tunnel established!
   Public URL: https://abc123.ngrok.io
   SSE endpoint: https://abc123.ngrok.io/sse
   Message endpoint: https://abc123.ngrok.io/message
   Health check: https://abc123.ngrok.io/health
   ```

## Using with Claude

To use this server with Claude for Desktop:

1. Configure Claude for Desktop by editing your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "pipedrive": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/pipedrive-mcp-server/build/index.js"],
      "env": {
        "PIPEDRIVE_API_TOKEN": "your_api_token_here",
        "PIPEDRIVE_DOMAIN": "your-company.pipedrive.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Restart Claude for Desktop
3. In the Claude application, you should now see the Pipedrive tools available

## Available Tools

- `get-users`: Get all users/owners from Pipedrive to identify owner IDs for filtering
- `get-deals`: Get deals with flexible filtering options (search by title, date range, owner, stage, status, value range, etc.)
- `get-deal`: Get a specific deal by ID (including custom fields)
- `get-deal-notes`: Get detailed notes and custom booking details for a specific deal
- `search-deals`: Search deals by term
- `get-persons`: Get all persons from Pipedrive (including custom fields)
- `get-person`: Get a specific person by ID (including custom fields)
- `search-persons`: Search persons by term
- `get-organizations`: Get all organizations from Pipedrive (including custom fields)
- `get-organization`: Get a specific organization by ID (including custom fields)
- `search-organizations`: Search organizations by term
- `get-pipelines`: Get all pipelines from Pipedrive
- `get-pipeline`: Get a specific pipeline by ID
- `get-stages`: Get all stages from all pipelines
- `search-leads`: Search leads by term
- `search-all`: Search across all item types (deals, persons, organizations, etc.)

## Available Prompts

- `list-all-deals`: List all deals in Pipedrive
- `list-all-persons`: List all persons in Pipedrive
- `list-all-pipelines`: List all pipelines in Pipedrive
- `analyze-deals`: Analyze deals by stage
- `analyze-contacts`: Analyze contacts by organization
- `analyze-leads`: Analyze leads by status
- `compare-pipelines`: Compare different pipelines and their stages
- `find-high-value-deals`: Find high-value deals

## Credits

This repository is based on the original work of [Will Dent](https://github.com/WillDent) and [Juho Koskela](https://github.com/juhokoskela). The original repository can be found at [https://github.com/WillDent/pipedrive-mcp-server](https://github.com/WillDent/pipedrive-mcp-server).

## License

MIT
